most of us share the exact same
sentiment I'm ready to go to jail and
like I said most of the people I know
are absolutely ready to go to jail and
take a beating whatever it takes - its
civil rights it's what it is it's civil
rights for a different species other
than just us this time yeah I love ALS
but I don't agree with them in being
nonviolent it's gonna be in the very
near future that somebody bust into a
slaughterhouse or vivisection lab with
guns and they tell the slaughterhouse
workers you take those knifes off those
pigs throats right now I'm gonna shoot
you this is just how it is we got to be
laughed at mocked thrown in jail just
that's just how it is yeah it takes
persecution to change the world sadly no
one has ever been arrested at one of our
days about our protests are always
nonviolent and we do not target
individuals or employees at the places
that we protest we have people trained
to deal with the police and no one has
ever been arrested at one of our days of
action and if you just google direct
action everywhere and arrest you will
find on their same website almost
boasting about the fact that so many
people have been arrested this one
specifies arrest warrants issued most of
us share the exact same sentiment I'm
ready to go to jail and like I said most
of the people I know are absolutely
ready to go to jail now we as a movement
exist in the millions of individuals but
together we move as one and these
industries the ones who exploit others
they feel what we feel and they fear it
according to one Union since the start
of the year
activists graffiti dallbrooke the
windows of around 50 stores and they
fear
and they should fear us for every single
day our numbers grow stronger our
conviction grows harder and that change
becomes ever more inevitable than it was
the day previous and they fear us
because they know that we will not stop
fighting though we will never take a
days rest and we will never take a days
break and for the animals are liberated
from the shackles
now species have been prison them within
equal rights means that the security at
an event of this kind treats you the
same regardless of what your political
ideology is it doesn't matter if you're
Pro racist or you're anti-racist
if you climb over that barrier security
is gonna beat you with the same bat and
put you in the same handcuffs and put
you in the back of the same truck it's
gonna be in the very near future that
somebody bust into a slaughterhouse or
vivisection lab with guns and they tell
the slaughterhouse workers you take
those knives off those pigs throats
right now I'm gonna shoot you it's a
little bit depressing for me to look on
screen right now and see how many
thousands of dollars worth of technology
I've got two computers the microphone
the camera involved and you guys know
the video quality and the audio quality
are still terrible unfortunately I do
not have the money in terms of support
on patreon the upgrade so this is what
you get
I also currently don't have any way to
film outdoors so aside from the sweat on
my shirt right now you don't get any
sense of the world outside my window but
I'm living in the tropics I'm living in
the middle of Taiwan um it's significant
that so many people sent in hate mail in
response to my critique of Earthling yet
uploaded less than 24 hours ago on this
channel okay but it's even more
significant that not a single one of
those people actually disagreed with the
substance or content of my critique not
one as is the second time most
that video was uploaded the intro was
new I'd uploaded the video before in the
past with a different intro to add a new
intro on what's basically a throwback
video because I already put together
this kind of thoughtful critique of the
philosophy and activism of earthling yet
right now a lot of the people it's
including some of the angriest and most
offensive comments that were deleted
they included in passing I agree with
the point you're making here but I agree
with what you're saying here but and
what is it that comes after the but in
principle the problem here is and and
you guys mostly hear me speak well of
democracy democracy as an ideal and
democracy as a real-world system you
mostly hear me speak well of democracy
on this channel what they're saying is
you're correct but on a very profound
level they think of politics as a
popularity contest and how dare you
criticize somebody more popular than
yourself that's really what all this
boils down to okay and they're
profoundly wrong one of the greatest
defects of philosophy one of the
greatest problems with philosophy is the
extent to which it misleads the public
into thinking of the political process
as a popularity contest politics is not
about popularity
when I say politics I mean here neither
political philosophy nor the pragmatic
world of policy formulation policy
implementation neither neither is a
popularity contest ultimately politics
is about right and wrong correct and
incorrect moral and immoral effective
and ineffective do you think there's any
country in the world that sets speed
limits by a popularity contest hey guys
who who wants who wants the speed limit
to be faster on this Highway there's a
highway a major highway in the sea who
wants to raise the speed limit show of
hands do a quick vote you think you
can't get 51% of the population
for higher and higher speed limits no
speed limits at all hey guys who wants
who wants seatbelts who wants to ride a
motorcycle without wearing a helmet how
popular is that how unpopular is it when
for the first time in the country the
police actually enforce a law requiring
safety helmets requiring seatbelts and
they start charging fines start actually
punishing people for not living up to
that standard how unpopular is it to be
pulled over and told no you're in the
wrong because you broke the speed a lot
of policies in democracy are deeply
deeply unpopular especially especially
when we're talking about ecology it's
not going to be popular for people that
would be responsible for the ecological
consequences of decisions that make
neither individual people nor big big
corporations ok politics is done a
popular already contest um if you look
at the most popular movie that came out
in the last year most popular movie
unless almost is that the most important
movie is that the most meaningful movie
is that the most educational movie is
that the most politically significant
movie make a list from the past ten
years you have to begin to google this
the past ten years the most popular
movies are they the most meaningful are
they the most politically significant
pretty much never okay who were the most
popular leaders in the vegan movement
during the last five years I can tell
you because I criticized all of them
Gary Yourofsky people were shocked when
I criticized Gary Cross many people were
deeply deeply shocked and also many
people sent in fan mail thanking me
saying wow you drew attention to
problems in Gary Ross he's philosophy
that I'd never thought of and problems
thought he was doing pragmatically Gary
Franchione a freely durianrider
today even somebody like supreme banana
these people are popular okay popular
doesn't mean meaningful popular doesn't
mean right rather than wrong okay even
what what am I gonna tell you
do you really want to commit to being in
a movement that will blindly follow
whoever happens to be popular so what's
happening psychologically for the people
writing in to me
and again I'm generalizing but I'm
generalizing about people who actually
wrote in with responses when they say
you are correct but how dare you I agree
with what you're saying here but but you
should silence yourself you shouldn't
dare to criticize this guy because he's
popular he's making money he's having
whatever search of it guys that is
exactly the same response
the majority of vegans had when I dared
to criticize Gary Yourofsky which is say
they admitted that I was right but they
still opposed it's how people responded
to my daring to criticize Wayne song the
leader of DXE to audition everywhere my
daring to criticize durianrider my
daring to criticize freely okay I don't
want to be popular I want to be right
and I'm not here speaking to the
majority of vegans I'm not speaking of
the majority of people on planet earth
I'm speaking to the minority however
small who are also interested in being
ethical in being correct in being right
and in doing something for the future
the movement that's effective so if
that's you hit me up let's save the
planet and if that's not change the
channel I replied to someone's comment
was actually comment on another video
somebody who was shocked at how the
particular video got so many thumbs down
and I replied to him and just said if
you want public approval tell the public
things they already want to hear it was
neither convenient for the American left
nor the American right to face up to the
fact that United States even under
Ronald Reagan supported an armed the
Khmer Rouge the Khmer Rouge
communists within Cambodia and they will
communist extremists within Cambodia and
the United States supported them in
their war against other communist
factions so it was a communist versus
communist civil war and the United
States actually supported one group of
Communists it wasn't a secret
it simply remained unknown because
nobody wanted to know in a sense I'll be
haunted by that forever and it shapes my
approach to both politics and personal
narratives so I'm keeping it real with
you guys when I look at the history of
the United States Canada and Europe
within my lifetime this is the pattern I
see there are people who want to believe
and there are people who are willing to
know the truth and there are two
different groups of people and within
any political movement they never mix if
what you want to believe is that the
Americans the American army is always on
the side of truth and justice and
democracy in the American Way you can
believe that
or you can learn truth from facts and
you can face over the fact that Wow the
United States of America supported some
of the most notorious mass murderers in
history of the world and they were
specifically communist mass murderers
Pol Pot and the Khmer Rouge in Cambodia
and you can start learning from there
that's that's who I want to be so I know
if the leap of influence is hard for you
guys to make if you want to believe that
Gary Yourofsky is a hero for the free
movement there are a lot of things
you're going to have to ignore about
Gary Yourofsky and so on for durianrider
Wayne's young and dxz and all these
other examples there were really really
important problems with each of these to
criticize and partly because of those
problems that I did criticize a lot of
those movements fell apart but my
critique has also been constructive and
some vegan leaders have responded
positively to or they they've adjusted
what they're doing either in terms of
rhetoric or pragmatics in response to
the critique
for way back in the day years and years
ago I know that the leadership at DXE
they saw my criticism of what they were
saying about the history of India what
they were saying about Mohandas Gandhi
you probably know him as Mahatma Gandhi
famous leader in history of India and it
was a nuanced critique what they were
saying but I was also pointing out look
you guys you guys haven't even read one
book about this history what you're
saying is really wrong about Gandhi in
this room so why he doing it and I
actually do think that they heard it I
heard back from them both directly and
indirectly that at that time they were
watching the criticisms on my channel I
think probably they stopped later just a
guess and I think they really adjusted
their messaging and said okay we're not
gonna lean on this fictional version of
what happened in history of India let's
stick to historical examples that you
know we know about or that make more
sense in comparison to the moon so you
know all of this criticism could be
responded to constructively but what's
shocking and stupid is that it's not
earthling IDI who's having this negative
reaction it's you guys in the audience
because you just want to make heroes out
of anyone who happens to be popular
so I have a response here this is just
reading directly from the comment
session somebody commented he's using
the name Ben Ben Desmond and evidently
English as a second language so there
are a lot of errors in the comment so
I'm just gonna paraphrase it rather than
reading it directly for what he says I
think is significant here he says the
problem is you don't understand human
psychology I'm just saying I don't
understand human psychology oh and by
the way he does say he does say don't
get me wrong I watched this video and I
agree with most of what you said look he
actually does agree with my criticism of
earthling head but he says when people
start doing face-to-face activism like
street protests street activism speeches
these kinds of dialogues you need to be
at 100% confidence in yourself in the
same way that during a boxing match
people need this kind of confidence
so this psychological over-the-top
I guess macho confidence that people
people adopt in order to to deal with
the format of street activism
face-to-face dialogue comedians he says
so you must at the least temporarily
avoid any sense of doubt or any self
questioning do you not think that's a
little bit tragic I mean there's a sense
in which I think he's correct
and yet he's terribly morally wrong um
it may be true that as he says people
probably including gary yourofsky's
probably a great example people want to
put themselves in this over-the-top
combative confident frame of mind but
then even looking at the example of
earthling ed what are the effects of
that you don't think earthling ed
confronts people with this you know
trumped-up confidence confronts them on
the street and gives them this
completely irrational easily refuted
philosophy he says to them hey in the
same way that you know first there was
black rights and then there was women's
rights and you know now we got animal
rights the logic he presents of
eliminating barriers of less-than and
greater-than so that people have equal
rights and then the next step is for a
wild bear to have equal rights with a
human being as for a cockroach to have
equal Umi I think a lot of people will
respond to that
his confidence face-to-face just with a
kind of leery detachment like okay and
then they're gonna walk away and within
the 30 minutes following afterwards
they're gonna come to the conclusion
vegans are crazy or at least this
particular vegan is presenting a
philosophy and a narrative that's
laughably insane how else really could
they respond to this now I mean I'm
saying this is after they walk away
because if you're having this
over-the-top self-confident demeanor
who's really
want to dispute it with you you're just
as ridiculous as any other manic street
preacher you're just as ludicrous as
someone preaching Catholicism or
Hinduism on the street corner and if
people listen to you at all you know
you're really ultimately sabotaging the
movement while you're pretending to
strengthen the movement and how are we
going to improve guys I mean I said in
that earlier video steel sharpens steel
who else would you tell me who else has
engaged in productive constructive
criticism of Earthling yet I don't think
I've ever seen a single other YouTube
channel do this ultimately the question
is how is the movement going to progress
stumbling in the darkness through hero
worship of whoever it is that manages to
get 10,000 viewers on YouTube or $10,000
a month in donations do you want to be
popular or do you want to be right do
you want to follow the trend of whatever
happens to be popular
whether that's Gary Yourofsky or
durianrider at the given moment you want
to be a people who just follows
whatever's popular whether that's petaa
people's definition of animals or DXE
direct action everywhere or do you want
to be someone who's actually engaged in
distinguishing effective from
ineffective good from bad right from
wrong I know what real politics is
earthling IDI as far as I know he
studied theater in university he studied
acting i studied politics philosophy
languages have a very different
background with earthling ed i see an
actor who is fundamentally acting out
the same script again and again and
again
and yes as this guy observes he does it
with a kind of confidence he compared
this guy compares it to a boxer going
into the boxing ring with confidence but
guess what that's false confidence if
you're driving a car and you don't know
where you're going
like you've misinterpreted the map
confidence is not necessarily a virtue
what's virtuous is to be open-minded
self-critical have detachment learn from
your mistakes and the first step towards
learning from your mistakes is noticing
your mistakes or being willing to listen
when somebody else points them out to
you a bonus Yin the Sun will one day set
on this world and a new dawn will rise
out of the ashes of violence hope will
rise
[Music]
can you feel it as a transmission
something that we only used to be able
to dream of just something that exists
in front of us something we can see
something that is tangible change the
change that is coming
[Music]
Clown College
I'm not going to enroll in that Clown
College that advertisement had no effect
on me whatsoever now we as a movement
exists in the millions of individuals
but together we move as one and these
industries the ones who exploit others
they feel what we feel
and they fear it and they fear us and
they should fear us for every single day
our numbers grow stronger our conviction
grows harder and that change becomes
ever more inevitable that it was the day
previous and they fear us because they
know that we will not stop fighting
though we will never take a days rest
and we will never take a days break
until the animals are liberated from the
shackles and our species has imprisoned
them within
[Music]
[Applause]
hey the section you're supposed to be
monitoring is on fire clowns are funny
the world that we watch that vegan world
exists out there in front of us in the
palm of our hands all we have to do is
reach out that's it
new people are still in my way long
enough I'm going to Clown College know
what like the head of us will not always
be easy we will feel pain will feel
anguish will feel despair and we may
even feel hopelessness these industries
will spread lies they will try to some
people they will try to deceive us they
will question our integrity they will
question our individual characteristics
and our motives and they will try and
drag our image through the mud to try
and make us no longer credible but we
have one thing the truth and that is all
that we needs but you are
[Applause]